---
title: 'Blog Post number 2'
date: 2025-07-21
permalink: /posts/2025/07/blog-post-2/
tags:
  - writing
  - science
  - llms
---

I am writing my first ever paper, and I am of course completely lost.

It is an incredibly difficult task, no matter how many years you already spent reading and reviewing other people's papers.

But while going through this exhausting process, I gained clarity about something: I will use LLMs, and I will be transparent about it.

Let's break this down a bit and let's be honest with ourselves: everyone uses LLMs somehow in their work. Be it in the form of coding assistants, literature review assistants, correction of a text written in your second language, general questions...and so on and so forth. I am no special in that sense, because I started using LLMs extensively about two months ago. To be completely honest, I hardly ever used any chatbot before that; wrongly so, I had a quite negative impression of them. 

There are a few things I would like to discuss about in this post, and I will try my best to elaborate on them so that they can result in a coherent picture of the disorganized thoughts I have in mind:
1. Coding is not an easy task for me
2. The wrong understanding of technology as merely an instrument
3. How and how much should we incorporate LLMs into our routine work


Coding is hard
------
For the longest time, I had a love-hate relationship with coding. I've always been a book-type-of-kid, and later on studied latin and ancient greek in high school. So for the most part, I didn't have a good impression of technology - books grew me up with a deep fascination for intricate thoughts, romantic feelings, and in general the pleasure of enjoying things in their slowness. But at the same time, I would spend hours as a kid on my dad's super old cathodic tube computer playing videogames me and my sister found in cereal boxes, and later on, sitting besides my dad working on his desk, on a little space he carved for me, on his other old (not as old as the first one) laptop, where I dived deep into YouTube to listen to my favourite artists' songs and learn them by heart, or watch TV series my friends recommended to me. 

So I guess I've always been fascinated by technology, I just didn't fully realize it until during my Bachelor's. There, I struggled A LOT with my first programming exam.

I remember having a full on meltdown at that time, and talking with my friends about how I found programming "sterile", "robotic", and "lacking any meaning" (gosh, sometimes I really could be an arrogant kid). It was only until later during my program, when I attended some courses about statistics (we used R), molecular dynamics (we used simulation softwares), and bioinformatics (we used the terminal and a lot of tools), that I started to appreciate and actually get passionate about all the possibilities that could open when you start using computers. So then I convinced myself I needed to improve, and went on to enroll in an artificial intelligence MSc program. Let's elegantly glide over how hard that was, again, but still, I was now completely caught in the fascination, and that luckily never stopped.

Fascination and passion for something does not imply being good at it, so my struggle with coding still exists. It's just something that doesn't come easy for me, I know that, and it's fine. But it means that sometimes I struggle so much, that I end in a total executive dysfunction [^execdys] episode 


Technology as more than an instrument
------

The tradeoff with LLMs between giving up agency and speeding up your work
------




Books I'm slowly reading during the evenings and weekends are "Pedagogia Hacker" (*Hacker pedagogy*), by italian authors Davide Fant and Carlo Milani, and "Unmasking Autism", by Dr. Devon Price. Another one is already on my readlist: "The sexual politics of meat", by Carol J. Adams.

I'm in my essays era, please save me.

Send writing tips, album and book recommendations to [luna.pianesi@gmail.com](mailto:luna.pianesi@gmail.com).


[execdys]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executive_dysfunction